Let's take a look at how we can solve this RANSAC algorithm now.
So here, the first thing I'm going to do
is I'm going to be running for max number of iterations.
So here, I'm taking that max iterations argument,
and while that is greater than zero I'm going be going through here and creating
a line and then counting inliers and keeping track of
which is the model with the best in inliers.
Here I have this inlier result.
So this is an unordered set,
and this can actually hold your best inliers.
So basically whatever it has
the highest number of inliers that's what inliers result will hold.
Now, let's go ahead and walk through the logic.
The first thing that you want to do is randomly pick two points to create your line from.
So here I'm going to create
this new unordered set of inliers and it's going to be holding ints,
and while inliers.size is less than two I'm going to be inserting a point,
and I'm going to do that randomly.
So here in C plus plus I'm calling this rand parentheses
and I'm doing mod of cloud point.size.
So what this is doing basically is rand could
be some very large number and by doing this modulo I'm
actually just going to be returning some value between
zero and the points size from cloud.
So that's the total number of points that cloud has,
somewhere in between there and then I insert it into inliers.
In sense that this is an unordered set,
unordered set means it's a HashSet or that just doesn't matter for the ordering,
we're just hashing into the index,
but set is only going to contain unique elements.
So let's say the thing that we want to avoid is picking the same index twice in a row.
Let's say we picked index zero and then we randomly go and we pick index zero again.
Well, that's not going to help us but using the set
is one way where if we tried to insert zero a twice
it just wouldn't insert it and it still remain
the same size because the elements have to be unique.
So then, if it picked that same one it would just
keep going through until it was a unique element,
and so then it's like okay now we're doing,
we did index zero,
now we randomly pick and we get index 50,
and those are going to be inserted into inliers and those are just int.
So inliers is holding the int.
So the index of some point from cloud.
So there is many ways that you can do that,
this is just an example of one and there might even be some more efficient ways too.
Now, we just want to be able to look at what the x1, y1, so that 0.1,
and x2, y2, 0.2 values were,
and inliers is actually holding that information.
So we actually want to see what the first value is so we can do inliers.begin.
So that's a pointer,
and it's pointing at the very beginning of inliers.
We can actually see what that value is by
de-referencing that pointer and then seeing what the value is.
So that's going to be the.x value for points,
and it's going to be the.y for points for y1.
So that's an index.
This is representing some index and so we're indexing into cloud and grabbing that index,
and we're grabbing its x value and we're grabbing its y value.
So that's the first point that we found and insert it into inliers.
Then if we want to get the second what we can do is that iterator,
we can just go ahead and increment it by one and then do the same thing,
dereference it to get that int value
and then get that x component and the y component and that's going to be x2 and y2.
So that's how we can get the x1, y1, x2,
y2 values from inliers that we randomly sampled.
Now, we just calculate what the a, b,
c values are by using those equations in the slides.
So those are all dependent on those x1, y1, x2,
y2 variables, and now we're all set to go through and iterate through the remaining,
so iterate through the points.
So we're going to just do a for-loop here,
and we have this index we start at zero and then we're going to
go for the size of points in cloud,
so cloud points.size, so iterate through all the points in
our data and then just increment that each time.
If that point isn't already a part of our line,
it's not one of the two points that we already sampled and create a line from,
we can do this so when we're doing count on
our set we're just seeing how if it contains an element or not,
if it's not zero,
then it does contain the element and if it does
we're not going to actually do anything with it,
we're just going to continue because that's already part of our line.
But if it's a point that's not part of our fitted line,
one of the two points,
then we're going to calculate the distance and see if it's within that threshold or not.
So here, we're going to grab that point by indexing into our cloud.
So cloud points index.
All right here, and we get this pcl PointXYZ point.
Then we can see what those x and y values are.
Remember, z in this case is just always going to be
zero since we're working with this 2D example.
We can get this x3 and y3 by just getting the member x and the member y from point,
and then we can calculate the distance.
Because we're using floats here and we need to do
an absolute value remember to do float abs,
otherwise you could get some funky results.
It could round and round to zero and it just won't be accurate,
but with this fabs we can do the absolute value of the floats.
Then this distance equation is just dependent on a, b,
c, and that point that we're trying to figure out the distance for, so x3, y3.
So it's just a function of that,
and so we can calculate d and if d is less than or equal to
the distance tolerance then we'll just add it to insert or the inliers,
so we'll insert it onto there.
So inliers is just our unordered set,
and then we'll just insert that index.
After we're done iterating through all the points,
so this part here,
we're basically going to look at the size of inliers,
and if it's greater than the inlier result that's the very beginning result that we
have for reference back up in this section here,
it's going to start out as zero.
If this new inliers is greater than that then inliers results becomes inliers.
So that's all the ints,
the indices that belong to that fitted model.
Then we can just go ahead and return inlier result.
So that is the solution of one way that we can do this RANSAC implementation,
and then we can see what that looks like.
We can change some of these hyper parameters here.
We could try it with 10 maybe,
and maybe we can do something like 1.0.
Now, let's go ahead and try compiling that.
So here we're inside RANSAC.
We create this new build directory here.
So I actually already did that.
Let's go ahead and cd into build,
and you'd call CMake.., the first setup,
all the instructions for creating the executable.
I did that as well,
so I'm just going to go ahead and run make now,
and then wait for that to compile.
Okay, and it creates this executable that's called the quizRansac.
So if I load that up,
so in this case here's what I got and it's saying here is
the best line with all the inlier showing up as green.
Okay cool. What if I change some of those hyper-parameters?
What if instead of doing 10 I just did one?
So we expect for it to be a pretty poor model in this case
because it only had one chance to try to find this model randomly.
So look of the draw here.
Let's just out of curiosity see what would happen if we just did one iteration.
So these are good parameters to play around with
and one thing to note that this max iteration is really
dependent on the ratio of inliers that you have
compared to the total number of points that you have because it's random.
So we want our RANSAC algorithm had the best chance of finding this best model.
Well, if you have a very high number of
inliers compared to the number of points you have,
let's say like 90 percent of your points are actually inliers,
then randomly speaking it has a fairly good chance of finding
this best model because it can use those inliers to fit the model right away.
So you won't have to have as many iterations,
but on the other hand if you had
only two percent of your points were inliers and everything else was
an outlier then you'd have
a very low chance on this first pick to actually get that line.
Here, it looks like we got quite lucky where we're getting it right there again.
I don't know if this is a random seed or not.
There we go, it's a little bit different.
There we go. Now, this time it's not grabbing that line.
So in just one pick we can see these different best models that it's generating,
and we just keep doing then and see.
But yeah, that's how that max number iterations affects it.
The distance tolerance again,
this is based on how much noise you have if
you expect your model that have quite a bit of noise and
you'd have the higher distance tolerance and factors like that, but cool.
So that's how we can go ahead and implement RANSAC from scratch in C plus plus.